# java-cruise-planner
A Java Command-Line program to plan cruise ships, cruises, and passengers

The project I chose for this milestone was the Cruise Ship project from IT-145. This project was a command-line based Java program to manage cruise ships, cruise routes, and passengers. This project was developed in April and May of 2020. The project as it was developed for that class had the basics developed for adding and displaying data, but only had basic “feature not yet implemented” messages for the edit functions. I selected this project for my ePortfolio because I wanted to show a variety of languages, and because this project had a clear path for improving, and because the project involved working with lists, which is a concept of Java that I still feel that I need to improve on.

My improvements started with adding in the edit cruise, edit ship, and edit passenger functions. These functions start by listing and prompting the user to select an entry to edit, and then prompt for new values for all the data on that entry. While editing these functions, I also modified the “Ship Names” list and the “Cruise List” to include a number before each entry and so the headers of the list matched to the columns, as some of them were one tab off. The main reason I did this was so that it was possible to reuse these functions in the edit menus. During this process, I also added a “Press Enter to Continue” prompt at the end of each option before the menu is displayed again, as when I was testing in the console window, many times the menu would push the entire command that was just run off the screen.

When I initially planned the objectives, I had also wanted to fix and re-prompt if invalid data was entered in some of the fields. I still would like to complete these, but due to the way the code is structured, I have not yet found a way to do this efficiently, as the way the code is structured in several places, an input error in any field would throw the same exception. I think I could put each field in its own try-catch block, but that will take more time than I had this week.

My main objective for this artifact was to work on list data structures. I feel that I have learned a lot about working with lists by editing the values in a specific list, however, I feel there is still more to learn, as I have not really worked with deleting from a list. If I have time to continue enhancing this project, I may add delete functions to the code as well. I also learned that it is better to structure the code in smaller sections, even if that increases complexity, as the try-catch blocks can throw an exception at too many points and catching and processing those exceptions is difficult.
